README.md, before:

> \[!CAUTION\]
> **THIS PROJECT IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION (WIP). DO NOT TAKE IT SERIOUSLY YET!**

---

<div align="center">

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
# 📝 POC: Kubernetes Custom Admission Control for Deployments


<!-- TECNOLOGIES -->
![Kubernetes Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-326CE5?logo=kubernetes&logoColor=fff&style=flat)
![Docker Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=fff&style=flat)
![FastAPI Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=fff&style=flat)


This repository contains a well detailed PoC about an specific use case: enabling custom validation and mutating webhook for your Kubernetes deployments based on a set of rules.
There are many solutions out there like OPA Gatekeeper or Kyverno specialized for this.
However, understanding how could you configure your custom server for validation or mutating webhook can provide you even farther flexibility if needed.

[Report Bug](https://github.com/paf-triarii/kubernetes-deployment-validation-and-mutating--webhook/issues) · [Request Feature](https://github.com/paf-triarii/kubernetes-deployment-validation-and-mutating--webhook/issues)
</div>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->


## 📚 Table of contents

- [📝 POC: Kubernetes Custom Admission Control for Deployments](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)
  - [📚 Table of contents](#-table-of-contents)
  - [💡 Structure](#-structure)
  - [🚀 Installation and Execution](#-installation-and-execution)
    - [🔨 Prerequisites](#-prerequisites)
    - [🗜️ Preparations](#️-preparations)
    - [Deployment Path 1: Server outside the cluster - Docker](#deployment-path-1-server-outside-the-cluster---docker)
    - [Deployment Path 2: Installing it in the kubernetes cluster - Kubernetes](#deployment-path-2-installing-it-in-the-kubernetes-cluster---kubernetes)
      - [Configuring the WebHooks](#configuring-the-webhooks)
    - [💼 Usage](#-usage)
  - [📍 Roadmap](#-roadmap)
  - [📎 Contributing](#-contributing)
  - [📃 License](#-license)
  - [👥 Contact](#-contact)

<!--te-->

<!-- PROJECT DETAILS -->
## 💡 Structure


## 🚀 Installation and Execution

### 🔨 Prerequisites

- Docker
- Python 3.10+
- Kubectl
- yq (only for Kubernetes deployment).

```bash
sudo wget -qO /usr/local/bin/yq https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/latest/download/yq_linux_amd64
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/yq
```

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

### 🗜️ Preparations

1. Build required docker images and upload to your cluster registry. Other option is to use my already publish image in DockerHub.

```bash
docker build . -f docker/Dockerfile.service -t uvicorn:1.0
```

2. [Optional] Generate self-signed certs for caddy. Omit this step if you have your own certificates for TLS exposure.

```bash
# Make sure to set your target domain and ip
./gen_certs.sh --domain codetriarii.org --ip 172.20.140.18
```

### Deployment Path 1: Server outside the cluster - Docker

If you want to deploy the server outside the cluster, make sure to follow these steps:

1. [Optional] If you have your own certs, place those in `certs` folder. Ensure naming is `ca.crt`, `cert.crt` and `cert.key`.

2. Start the server with `docker compose`.

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate
```

### Deployment Path 2: Installing it in the kubernetes cluster - Kubernetes

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> For kubernetes, you must generate the certs with CN expected the service name to avoid TLS errors.

```bash
./gen_certs.sh --domain uvicorn-service.demo.svc --ip 127.0.0.1
```



1. Create the tls secret from your certs (either the ones you have placed in `certs` folder or the automatically generated ones.)

```bash
kubectl create ns demo
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace demo
kubectl create secret tls uvicorn-tls-secret --cert=certs/cert.crt --key=certs/cert.key
```

2. Create the deployment.

```bash
kubectl create -f kubernetes/uvicorn-deployment.yaml
```

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> If you are using your own built image, then make sure to change the `image` of the deployment and include `imagePullSecrets` if required (if your registry is authorized as it should be...)

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

#### Configuring the WebHooks

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> Kubernetes versions enable by default `ValidatingAdmissionWebhook` and `MutatingAdmissionWebhook`. Ensure both plugins are enabled in your cluster. If not, just include both in `--enable-admission-plugins=` flag of `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml` of your master(s) node.

1. Set the ca-bundle from `certs` folder.

```bash
{
   ca_bundle=$(cat certs/ca.crt | base64 -w0)
   yq read kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml -j | jq ".webhooks[].clientConfig.caBundle = \"${ca_bundle}\"" | yq read -P - > kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml.bak
   mv kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml.bak kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml
}
```

2. Create the validation and mutating webhook definitions:

```bash
kubectl create -f kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml
kubectl create -f kubernetes/mutating-webhook.yaml
```

<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
### 💼 Usage


_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](https://example.com)_

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

<!-- ROADMAP -->
## 📍 Roadmap

- [x] Create validation/mutating server with FastAPI.
- [x] Prepare docker and kubernetes deployment (two flavors).

See the [open issues](https://github.com/paf-triarii/kubernetes-deployment-validation-and-mutating--webhook/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## 📎 Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated** :chart:.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch

   ```sh
   git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature
   ```

3. Commit your Changes

   ```sh
   git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature
   ```

4. Push to the Branch

   ```sh
   git push origin feature/AmazingFeature
   ```

5. Open a Pull Request

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- LICENSE -->
## 📃 License

Distributed under the [`APACHE 2.0`](./LICENSE) License.

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- CONTACT -->
## 👥 Contact

<div align="center">

---

**`PAF TRIARII (pedroarias1015@gmail.com) a member of Code Triarii`**

---

[![X](https://img.shields.io/badge/X-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=X&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/codetriariism)
[![TikTok](https://img.shields.io/badge/TikTok-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=TikTok&logoColor=white)](https://www.tiktok.com/@codetriariism)
[![Medium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-12100E?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium&logoColor=white)](https://medium.com/@codetriariism)
[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-%23FF0000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=YouTube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/@CodeTriariiSM)
[![Instagram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-%23E4405F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Instagram&logoColor=white)](https://www.instagram.com/codetriariismig/)

</div>

As we always state, our main purpose is keep learning, contributing to the community and finding ways to collaborate in interesting initiatives.
Do not hesitate to contact us at `codetriariism@gmail.com`

If you are interested in our content creation, also check our social media accounts. We have all sorts of training resources, blogs, hackathons, write-ups and more!
Do not skip it, you will like it :smirk: :smirk: :smirk: :+1:

Don't forget to give the project a star if you liked it! Thanks again! :star2: :yellow_heart:

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

Commit message:

Successfully implemented whitelist repo validation for pods

README.md, after:

> \[!CAUTION\]
> **THIS PROJECT IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION (WIP). DO NOT TAKE IT SERIOUSLY YET!**

---

<div align="center">

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
# 📝 POC: Kubernetes Custom Admission Control for Deployments


<!-- TECNOLOGIES -->
![Kubernetes Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kubernetes-326CE5?logo=kubernetes&logoColor=fff&style=flat)
![Docker Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-2496ED?logo=docker&logoColor=fff&style=flat)
![FastAPI Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-009688?logo=fastapi&logoColor=fff&style=flat)


This repository contains a well detailed PoC about an specific use case: enabling custom validation and mutating webhook for your Kubernetes deployments based on a set of rules.
There are many solutions out there like OPA Gatekeeper or Kyverno specialized for this.
However, understanding how could you configure your custom server for validation or mutating webhook can provide you even farther flexibility if needed.

[Report Bug](https://github.com/paf-triarii/kubernetes-deployment-validation-and-mutating--webhook/issues) · [Request Feature](https://github.com/paf-triarii/kubernetes-deployment-validation-and-mutating--webhook/issues)
</div>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->


## 📚 Table of contents

- [📝 POC: Kubernetes Custom Admission Control for Deployments](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)
  - [📚 Table of contents](#-table-of-contents)
  - [💡 Structure](#-structure)
  - [🚀 Installation and Execution](#-installation-and-execution)
    - [🔨 Prerequisites](#-prerequisites)
    - [🗜️ Preparations](#️-preparations)
    - [Deployment Path 1: Server outside the cluster - Docker](#deployment-path-1-server-outside-the-cluster---docker)
    - [Deployment Path 2: Installing it in the kubernetes cluster - Kubernetes](#deployment-path-2-installing-it-in-the-kubernetes-cluster---kubernetes)
      - [Configuring the WebHooks](#configuring-the-webhooks)
  - [📍 Roadmap](#-roadmap)
  - [📎 Contributing](#-contributing)
  - [📃 License](#-license)
  - [👥 Contact](#-contact)

<!--te-->

<!-- PROJECT DETAILS -->
## 💡 Structure


## 🚀 Installation and Execution

### 🔨 Prerequisites

- Docker
- Python 3.10+
- Kubectl
- yq (only for Kubernetes deployment).

```bash
sudo wget -qO /usr/local/bin/yq https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/latest/download/yq_linux_amd64
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/yq
```

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

### 🗜️ Preparations

1. Build required docker images and upload to your cluster registry. Other option is to use my already publish image in DockerHub.

```bash
docker build . -f docker/Dockerfile.service -t uvicorn:1.0
```

2. [Optional] Generate self-signed certs for caddy. Omit this step if you have your own certificates for TLS exposure.

```bash
# Make sure to set your target domain and ip
./gen_certs.sh --domain codetriarii.org --ip 172.20.140.18
```

### Deployment Path 1: Server outside the cluster - Docker

If you want to deploy the server outside the cluster, make sure to follow these steps:

1. [Optional] If you have your own certs, place those in `certs` folder. Ensure naming is `ca.crt`, `cert.crt` and `cert.key`.

2. Start the server with `docker compose`.

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up --force-recreate
```

### Deployment Path 2: Installing it in the kubernetes cluster - Kubernetes

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> For kubernetes, you must generate the certs with CN expected the service name to avoid TLS errors.

```bash
./gen_certs.sh --domain uvicorn-service.demo.svc --ip 127.0.0.1
```



1. Create the tls secret from your certs (either the ones you have placed in `certs` folder or the automatically generated ones.)

```bash
kubectl create ns demo
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace demo
kubectl create secret tls uvicorn-tls-secret --cert=certs/cert.crt --key=certs/cert.key -n demo
```

2. Create the configmap with the rules details.

```bash
kubectl create cm uvicorn-config --from-file=uvicorn_config/config.yaml -n demo
```

> \[!TIP\]
> Check the rules before creation, to enable, disable, change the parameters as you require.

3. Create the deployment.

```bash
kubectl create -f kubernetes/uvicorn-deployment.yaml
```

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> If you are using your own built image, then make sure to change the `image` of the deployment and include `imagePullSecrets` if required (if your registry is authorized as it should be...)

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

#### Configuring the WebHooks

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
> Kubernetes versions enable by default `ValidatingAdmissionWebhook` and `MutatingAdmissionWebhook`. Ensure both plugins are enabled in your cluster. If not, just include both in `--enable-admission-plugins=` flag of `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml` of your master(s) node.

1. Set the ca-bundle from `certs` folder.

```bash
{
   ca_bundle=$(cat certs/ca.crt | base64 -w0)
   yq read kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml -j | jq ".webhooks[].clientConfig.caBundle = \"${ca_bundle}\"" | yq read -P - > kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml.bak
   mv kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml.bak kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml
}
```

2. Create the validation and mutating webhook definitions:

```bash
kubectl create -f kubernetes/validation-webhook.yaml
kubectl create -f kubernetes/mutating-webhook.yaml
```

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

<!-- ROADMAP -->
## 📍 Roadmap

- [x] Create validation/mutating server with FastAPI.
- [x] Prepare docker and kubernetes deployment (two flavors).
- [ ] Implement rules based on `config.yaml`
  - [x] Support for pods - whitelist images

See the [open issues](https://github.com/paf-triarii/kubernetes-deployment-validation-and-mutating--webhook/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## 📎 Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated** :chart:.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch

   ```sh
   git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature
   ```

3. Commit your Changes

   ```sh
   git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature
   ```

4. Push to the Branch

   ```sh
   git push origin feature/AmazingFeature
   ```

5. Open a Pull Request

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- LICENSE -->
## 📃 License

Distributed under the [`APACHE 2.0`](./LICENSE) License.

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)

<!-- CONTACT -->
## 👥 Contact

<div align="center">

---

**`PAF TRIARII (pedroarias1015@gmail.com) a member of Code Triarii`**

---

[![X](https://img.shields.io/badge/X-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=X&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/codetriariism)
[![TikTok](https://img.shields.io/badge/TikTok-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=TikTok&logoColor=white)](https://www.tiktok.com/@codetriariism)
[![Medium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-12100E?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium&logoColor=white)](https://medium.com/@codetriariism)
[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-%23FF0000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=YouTube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/@CodeTriariiSM)
[![Instagram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-%23E4405F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Instagram&logoColor=white)](https://www.instagram.com/codetriariismig/)

</div>

As we always state, our main purpose is keep learning, contributing to the community and finding ways to collaborate in interesting initiatives.
Do not hesitate to contact us at `codetriariism@gmail.com`

If you are interested in our content creation, also check our social media accounts. We have all sorts of training resources, blogs, hackathons, write-ups and more!
Do not skip it, you will like it :smirk: :smirk: :smirk: :+1:

Don't forget to give the project a star if you liked it! Thanks again! :star2: :yellow_heart:

[🔝 Back to top](#-poc-kubernetes-custom-admission-control-for-deployments)
